.Dd December 23, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_SET_RESPONSE_STATUS 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_set_response_status
.Nd set HTTP response status
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft void
.Fo kitserv_api_set_response_status
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "enum kitserv_http_response_status"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_set_response_status
function sets the given response status on the client.
.Pp
The supported statuses are as follows:
.D1 Dv HTTP_X_RESP_STATUS_UNSET
.D1 Dv HTTP_X_HANGUP
.D1 Dv HTTP_200_OK
.D1 Dv HTTP_204_NO_CONTENT
.D1 Dv HTTP_206_PARTIAL_CONTENT
.D1 Dv HTTP_304_NOT_MODIFIED
.D1 Dv HTTP_400_BAD_REQUEST
.D1 Dv HTTP_403_PERMISSION_DENIED
.D1 Dv HTTP_404_NOT_FOUND
.D1 Dv HTTP_408_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
.D1 Dv HTTP_413_CONTENT_TOO_LARGE
.D1 Dv HTTP_414_URI_TOO_LONG
.D1 Dv HTTP_416_RANGE_NOT_SATISFIABLE
.D1 Dv HTTP_431_REQUEST_HEADER_FIELDS_TOO_LARGE
.D1 Dv HTTP_500_INTERNAL_ERROR
.D1 Dv HTTP_501_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
.D1 Dv HTTP_503_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE
.D1 Dv HTTP_505_VERSION_NOT_SUPPORTED
.D1 Dv HTTP_507_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE
.Pp
Until the response status has been changed from its default value,
.Dv HTTP_X_RESP_STATUS_UNSET , No Kitserv will continue to call the endpoint
handler. Once it has been set, returning from the handler will trigger
Kitserv to send the response.
.Pp
If the response status has been changed and the endpoint does noy yet wish
to send the response (for example, by
.Xr http_handle_static_path 3
on error), this function may be used to revert the status to
.Dv HTTP_X_RESP_STATUS_UNSET
to prevent replying.
.Pp
.Dv HTTP_405_METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED
is also supported, but is reserved for internal use. Endpoints should enforce
method restrictions using the API tree.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr http_handle_static_path 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
