.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_SEND_FILE 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_send_file
.Nd send an opened file for a response
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb kitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_api_send_file
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "off_t filesize"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_send_file
function will store an open fd to be sent in the response. The
.Fa filesize
argument is taken as the size of the file, in bytes. The file will be closed
after sending (or calling this function again), use
.Xr dup 2
prior to calling to avoid side effects if this fd is shared.
.Pp
By default, Kitserv will send the entire file. To send a subset, use
.Xr kitserv_api_set_send_range 3 . No
.Pp
For a HEAD request, use the constant
.Dv KITSERV_FD_HEAD . No Kitserv will not send the file body on a HEAD
request anyway, but this constant allows the endpoint to avoid opening
the file in the first place.
.Pp
Using this function will override sending the body buffer (set up
.No using Xr kitserv_api_write_body 3 ) No \- to return to sending the body,
.No pass Dv KITSERV_FD_DISABLE No as Fa fd . No The fa filesize No argument
is ignored in this case.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns 0. On failure, this function returns -1,
.No setting Va errno . No
.Sh ERRORS
This function currently cannot fail. However, it may be possible for a future
implementation to fail, and thus future-proof programs should account for
this possibility.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dup 2 ,
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_set_send_range 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_write_body 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_http_header_add 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
