.Dd December 23, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_HTTP_HEADER_ADD 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_http_header_add, \
kitserv_http_header_add_content_type, \
kitserv_http_header_add_content_type_guess, \
kitserv_http_header_add_last_modified
.Nd add formatted header to response
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_http_header_add
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* key"
.Fa "const char* fmt"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_http_header_add_content_type
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* mime"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_http_header_add_content_type_guess
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* extension"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_http_header_add_last_modified
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "time_t time"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add*
family of functions add formatted headers to the current response.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add
function will append a printf-style format string to the headers, using the
given key as the name of the header. This is the most general header append
function. Do not include the key in the format string.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add_content_type
function will append a content-type header to the response, using the given
.Fa mime
argument as the value string. Do not forget to set this header in responses.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add_content_type_guess
function will append a content-type header to the response in the same
manner as
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add_content_type , No but will guess the mime type
to use based on the extension given. The extension should include the leading
period, for example, ".txt". If the extension is not recognized by Kitserv, a
type of "application/octet-stream" is used instead. For this reason, it is
recommended to use
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add_content_type
instead, where possible.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_http_header_add_last_modified
function will append a last-modified header to the response. This time will
be formatted according to RFC 9110.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0. On failure, they return -1, setting
.Va errno No and a corresponding HTTP response status.
.Sh ERRORS
These functions shall fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy HTTP 507 / ENOMEM
There is not enough space in the header buffer to store this header.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_preserve_headers_on_error 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_reset_headers 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
