.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_GET_REQUEST_COOKIE 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_get_request_cookie, \
kitserv_api_get_request_cookie_n
.Nd get a specific cookie from a request
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft const char*
.Fo kitserv_api_get_request_cookie
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* key"
.Fc
.Ft const char*
.Fo kitserv_api_get_request_cookie_n
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* key"
.Fa "int keylen"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_get_request_cookie
function retrieves a cookie from the request headers, or
.Dv NULL
if no cookie by that name exists.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_api_get_request_cookie_n
function retrieves a cookie with a precalculated key length (not cookie value
length). Kitserv skips cookies if the key length does not match, so this
function removes the (small) overhead of calculating the length of the key.
.Pp
Because Kitserv preallocates storage for all request information, there is a
hard limit on the number of cookies that Kitserv will store. If a client sends
more cookies, it is possible that the cookie with the requested key is
discarded. The maximum number of cookies is defined such that most browsers
will not send that many cookies in the first place, which should prevent this
issue. Regardless, API endpoints relying on cookies should avoid setting too
many, especially if hosted on a subdomain.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return a pointer to a null-terminated cookie value
string or
.Dv NULL
if no cookie with that key exists. On failure, they return
.Dv NULL , No setting Va errno . No \&
.Sh ERRORS
These functions shall fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy EINVAL
.Fa key No is Dv NULL , No or Fa keylen No is invalid.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_content_length 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_disposition 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_method 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_mime_type 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_modified_since_difference 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_path 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_query 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_range 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
