.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_GET_REQUEST_RANGE 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_get_request_range
.Nd get request's content-range header value
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb kitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_api_get_request_range
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "off_t* start"
.Fa "off_t* end"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_get_request_range
function returns a client's range request in the out-parameters
.Fa start
and
.Fa end . No Kitserv does not support multirange requests.
.Pp
A range request header is formatted as any of the following:
.in +4n
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It range: bytes=10-20
.It range: bytes=10-
.It range: bytes=-20
.El
.in -4n
.Pp
This function will place a value in
.Fa start
and
.Fa end
based on where that value is relative to the dash (-). If a value is not
present (the second and third cases above), this function will instead set
the corresponding 
.Fa start
or
.Fa end
to -1.
.Pp
The endpoint should take care to respect RFC 9110's description of range header
semantics. In particular, when
.Fa end
is -1, the endpoint should set the end of the range to the length of the
resource. When
.Fa start
is -1, the endpoint should set the range to be the last
.Fa end
bytes of the resource.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns 0. On failure, this function returns -1 but
does not set
.Va errno . No
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples show a sample range header and the corresponding result
of a call to
.Sy kitserv_api_get_request_range() . No
.in +4n
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It range: bytes=10-20
.Em start
= 10, 
.Em end
= 20
.It range: bytes=10-
.Em start
= 10, 
.Em end
= -1
.It range: bytes=-20
.Em start
= -1, 
.Em end
= 20
.It range: lines=10-20
This function returns -1. (Invalid unit).
.It [No range given]
This function returns -1.
.El
.in -4n
.Sh ERRORS
This function shall fail if:
.in +4n
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It The request did not contain a range header.
.It The range header was malformed.
.El
.in -4n
.Pp
In either case, the endpoint should treat the request as if the client did not
make a range request.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 0 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_content_length 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_cookie 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_disposition 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_method 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_mime_type 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_modified_since_difference 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_path 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_query 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
