.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_GET_REQUEST_METHOD 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_get_request_method
.Nd get request's HTTP method (verb)
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft enum kitserv_http_method
.Fn kitserv_api_get_request_method "struct kitserv_client*"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_get_request_method
function returns the HTTP request method (verb) that the client used.
.Pp
The supported methods are as follows:
.D1 Dv HTTP_GET
.D1 Dv HTTP_HEAD
.D1 Dv HTTP_POST
.D1 Dv HTTP_PUT
.D1 Dv HTTP_DELETE
.Pp
Note that the API endpoint already defines the method before the function
is called. This function exists to support registering the same function for
multiple methods, or for differentiating between GET and HEAD. Note that
Kitserv will make sure that the body is not sent for a HEAD reply, but early
detection can allow API endpoints from generating the response in the first
place if it can serve the HEAD request without doing so.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
This function returns the HTTP method as an enum.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_content_length 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_cookie 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_disposition 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_mime_type 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_modified_since_difference 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_path 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_query 3 , 
.Xr kitserv_api_get_request_range 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
