.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV_API_WRITE_BODY 3 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm kitserv_api_write_body
.Nd write text into the response body buffer
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb kitserv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kitserv.h
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_api_write_body
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "char* buf"
.Fa "char* buflen"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo kitserv_api_write_body_fmt
.Fa "struct kitserv_client*"
.Fa "const char* fmt"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kitserv_api_write_body
function writes
.Fa buflen
bytes from
.Fa buf
into the response body.
.Pp
The
.Fn kitserv_api_write_body_fmt
function writes a printf-style format string into the response body.
.Pp
Unless indicated otherwise, Kitserv will send the entire response body to the
client. To send a subset, use
.Xr kitserv_api_set_send_range 3 . No Note that Kitserv will always send until
the end of the buffer, so setting the send range will only affect the
start offset.
.Pp
Note that, if Kitserv has been indicated to send a file, that takes precedence
over sending this body buffer. For more information, see
.Xr kitserv_api_send_file 3 . No
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return the number of bytes written. On failure,
they return -1, setting
.Va errno . No
.Sh ERRORS
These functions shall fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy ENOMEM
The response body buffer needed to expand, but space was not available.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kitserv 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_send_file 3 ,
.Xr kitserv_api_set_send_range 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
