.Dd December 21, 2023
.Os LOCAL
.Dt KITSERV 1 LOCAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm Kitserv
.Nd Simple Fully-Static File Server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy kitserv
.Fl w Ar webdir
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl s Ar slots
.Op Fl t Ar threads
.Op Fl f Ar fallback
.Op Fl r Ar root_fallback
.Op Fl 4
.Op Fl 6
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Kitserv is a simple static file server to host any given directory as a
static web server.
.Pp
Kitserv does not require anything more than its executable to run - it is
not a daemon nor does it create any external dependencies such as log files
(information is sent to standard output streams).
.Pp
Shut down Kitserv by sending SIGINT or SIGTERM.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl w Ar webdir
Path to directory that will be hosted.
.It Op Fl p Ar port
Port to run on.
.It Op Fl s Ar slots
Number of connection slots in total. Kitserv preallocates all slots, so
expansion is not possible. Note that clients may experience connection issues
as the load nears its peak, though Kitserv will do its best to serve every
client it can.
.It Op Fl t Ar threads
Number of threads to use to serve clients.
.It Op Fl f Ar fallback
File to serve when the requested path is not accessible. This location is
relative to webdir.
.It Op Fl r Ar root_fallback
File to serve when the requested path is /. This location is relative to
webdir.
.It Op Fl 4
Bind IPv4 address only.
.It Op Fl 6
Bind IPv6 address only. If enabled on the system, use dual binding.
.It Op Fl h
Show help information and configured default values.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Run a dual-bound server on the directory ./web
.Dl kitserv -w ./web -6
.Pp
Run an IPv4-only server with support for 10000 clients using 16 threads on
the directory ./web
.Dl kitserv -w ./web -t 16 -s 10000 -4
.Pp
Run a server with fallbacks enabled on the directory ./web
.Dl kitserv -w ./web -f /200.html -r /index.html
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Jmcgee1125.
.Pp
Kitserv is licensed under the GNU Affero GPL v3. You are free to redistribute
and modify this code as you see fit, provided that you make the source code
freely available under these terms.
